%!TEX root =  main.tex

\chapter{Access Management}

\section{Controlling Access}

What is Access Management in IT\@?

In the area of information technology the subject ``Access Management'' 
has several subareas

\begin{itemize}
    \item Application Security: restrict users and programs
    \item User Productivity: providing users with ease access to their needs
    \item Middleware technology
\end{itemize}



\section{In Real Life: Border Controls}

A good comparison to illustrate the main characteristics of
authentication is \emph{border control}. That one you'll most often find
on airports or on the actual boarder between countries\footnote{There
was a time you had to leave \emph{Schengen Area} to find this seldom
experience, nowadays there seems to be an inflation of borderline
checks.}.\\*

You leave one domain, or more important: you enter another domain. 
A domain that has a certain definition, borders, and authorities that 
execute policies (for good and for bad, however).  Those brave officers 
want you to identify yourself --- your job is to provide them data, exact 
and distinct data and some prove that you tell the truth.\\*

The data is usually good enough to identify you among all human beings.
That quality of your prove must satisfy the procedure of those border
checks. With a valid passport you own a document from a common trusted
authority that covers this.

\begin{enumerate}
    \item[-] identifying you among all others and (identification)
    \item[-] prove the correctness of this statement (authentication)
\end{enumerate}

For you, as the traveler, the desired outcome of this procedure is your
valid entry without much delay.


\subsection{Alternative Flows}

Thinking more general, what other situations in or outcomes of this
situation are possible?

\begin{itemize}
    \item[-] you could pretend to be another person, perhaps from another country
    \item[-] you could sneak in the country, preventing any check
    \item[-] you could mix you passport by mistake in the cafeteria next to the borderline. 
        You enter the country with a different identity without knowing
    \item[-] your passport is expired and you are not allowed to enter the country
    \item[-] etc.
\end{itemize}

All those situations have a direct mapping to use cases in the IT world.

\subsection{Not Authorized}

One more thing is in common: it is not checked what exactly you are
allowed to do (in the country or domain). There might be a rough
categorization by authentication, like people from country X would also
need a visa and people from country Y are not allowed at all to enter.
But this is not the place where a work or residence permit would be
checked (as far as I know).\\*

Using our vocabulary, \emph{we are authenticated but no authorization 
check has been done}.


